Duet AI  documentation lookup prompts for Beam ML (#30351)
apache/beam: learning/prompts/documentation-lookup/43_ai_llm_inference.md

Prompt:
Ho can I use Apache Beam to run inference on Large Language Models (LLMs)?
Response:
The preferred way to run inference in an Apache Beam pipeline is to use the [RunInference API](https://beam.apache.org/releases/pydoc/current/apache_beam.ml.inference.html#apache_beam.ml.inference.RunInference) provided by the Apache Beam SDK. It enables you to run models as part of your pipeline or perform remote inference calls.

> You can use `RunInference` `PTransform` with large models as long they fit into memory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use the `RunInference` transform with large models as long they fit into memory.
```

Your typical workflow for running inference on LLMs in an Apache Beam pipeline is as follows:

> 1. Read the input text data from a source such as a file or a Pub/Sub topic.
> 2. Encode the text into LLM model understandable tokens, usually using a tokenizer.
> 3. Use RunInference to get the predictions from the model.
> 4. Decode the predictions into human-readable text.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Read the input text data from a source such as a file or a Pub/Sub topic.
2. Encode the text into tokens understandable by the LLM model, typically using a tokenizer.
3. Use the `RunInference` transform to obtain predictions from the model.
4. Decode the predictions into human-readable text.
```

> Following is an example of how to use the `RunInference` API with LLMs in an Apache Beam pipeline:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here is an example demonstrating how to leverage the RunInference API with LLMs in an Apache Beam pipeline:
```

```python
import apache_beam as beam
from apache_beam.ml.inference.base import RunInference

with beam.Pipeline(options=pipeline_options) as pipeline:
    _ = (
        pipeline
        | "CreateInputs" >> beam.Create(task_sentences)
        | "Preprocess" >> beam.ParDo(Preprocess(tokenizer=tokenizer))
        | "RunInference" >> RunInference(model_handler=model_handler)
        | "PostProcess" >> beam.ParDo(Postprocess(tokenizer=tokenizer))
    )
```

> In this example, `Preprocess` and `Postprocess` are `DoFn` classes that encode and decode the input and output data using a tokenizer, and `model_handler` is a `ModelHandler` object that wraps the underlying model and allows you to set environment variables needed load the model.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this example, `Preprocess` and `Postprocess` are `DoFn` classes responsible for encoding and decoding the input and output data using a tokenizer. The `model_handler` is a `ModelHandler` object that wraps the underlying model and allows you to configure environment variables required to load the model.
```

> Following is an example of how to configure a `Pytorch` model handler to use in your pipeline:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here is an example of how to configure a Pytorch model handler for use in your pipeline:
```

```python
from apache_beam.ml.inference.pytorch_inference import PytorchModelHandlerTensor
model_handler = PytorchModelHandlerTensor(
    state_dict_path=known_args.model_state_dict_path,
    model_class=T5ForConditionalGeneration,
    model_params={
        "config": AutoConfig.from_pretrained(known_args.model_name)
    },
    device="cpu",
    inference_fn=gen_fn)
```
Each particular model handler will have its own specific configuration parameters. For example, the `PytorchModelHandlerTensor` requires the following parameters:
- `state_dict_path`: The path to the saved model state dictionary.
- `model_class`: The class of the `Pytorch` model that defines model structure.
- `model_params`: The dictionary of model parameters.
- `device`: The device to run the model on (e.g. "cpu" or "gpu").
- `inference_fn`: The function to run the inference during RunInference.

> See [here](https://beam.apache.org/releases/pydoc/current/apache_beam.ml.inference.html) for supported popular frameworks and models.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For information on supported popular frameworks and models, refer to the reference documentation for the [`apache_beam.ml.inference` package](https://beam.apache.org/releases/pydoc/current/apache_beam.ml.inference.html).
```

> Please see [here](https://github.com/apache/beam/blob/master/sdks/python/apache_beam/examples/inference/large_language_modeling/main.py) for the full example of using the `RunInference API` with LLMs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can find the comprehensive example of using the RunInference API with LLMs in the [Apache Beam GitHub repository](https://github.com/apache/beam/blob/master/sdks/python/apache_beam/examples/inference/large_language_modeling/main.py).
```

Prompt:
Ho can I use Apache Beam to run inference on Large Language Models (LLMs)?

Response:

> The optimal approach for conducting inference within an Apache Beam pipeline is by leveraging the [RunInference API](https://beam.apache.org/releases/pydoc/current/apache_beam.ml.inference.html#apache_beam.ml.inference.RunInference) provided by the Apache Beam SDK. This feature allows you to seamlessly incorporate ML models into your pipeline or execute remote inference calls.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The optimal approach for conducting inference within an Apache Beam pipeline is by leveraging the [RunInference API](https://beam.apache.org/releases/pydoc/current/apache_beam.ml.inference.html#apache_beam.ml.inference.RunInference) provided by the Apache Beam Python SDK. This feature allows you to seamlessly incorporate ML models into your pipeline or execute remote inference calls.
```

> You can use the `RunInference` transform with large models as long they fit into memory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use the `RunInference` transform with large models as long as they fit into memory.
```

1. Read the input text data from a source such as a file or a Pub/Sub topic.
2. Encode the text into tokens understandable by the LLM model, typically using a tokenizer.
3. Use the `RunInference` transform to obtain predictions from the model.
4. Decode the predictions into human-readable text.

Here is an example demonstrating how to leverage the RunInference API with LLMs in an Apache Beam pipeline:

```python
import apache_beam as beam
from apache_beam.ml.inference.base import RunInference

with beam.Pipeline(options=pipeline_options) as pipeline:
    _ = (
        pipeline
        | "CreateInputs" >> beam.Create(task_sentences)
        | "Preprocess" >> beam.ParDo(Preprocess(tokenizer=tokenizer))
        | "RunInference" >> RunInference(model_handler=model_handler)
        | "PostProcess" >> beam.ParDo(Postprocess(tokenizer=tokenizer))
    )
```

In this example, `Preprocess` and `Postprocess` are `DoFn` classes responsible for encoding and decoding the input and output data using a tokenizer. The `model_handler` is a `ModelHandler` object that wraps the underlying model and allows you to configure environment variables required to load the model.

> Here is an example of how to configure a Pytorch model handler for use in your pipeline:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here is an example of how to configure a PyTorch model handler for use in your pipeline:
```

```python
from apache_beam.ml.inference.pytorch_inference import PytorchModelHandlerTensor
model_handler = PytorchModelHandlerTensor(
    state_dict_path=known_args.model_state_dict_path,
    model_class=T5ForConditionalGeneration,
    model_params={
        "config": AutoConfig.from_pretrained(known_args.model_name)
    },
    device="cpu",
    inference_fn=gen_fn)
```

Each specific model handler has its own configuration parameters. For example, the `PytorchModelHandlerTensor` requires the following parameters:
* `state_dict_path`: the path to the saved model state dictionary.

> * `model_class`: the class of the Pytorch model that defines model structure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `model_class`: the class of the PyTorch model that defines model structure.
```
